Overview: Quality Prediction in Mining Process using RapidMiner tool. The goal was to anticipate the level of Silica ahead of time from the concentrate of iron metal and its pollutant. Albeit the % of Silica is estimated toward the finish of each cycle. It's a lab estimation, which implies that it requires in any event one hour for the interaction specialists to have this worth. The principal objective was to utilize this information to anticipate how much contamination is in the metal concentrate. As this contamination is estimated each hour, on the off chance that we can foresee how much silica (pollutant) is in the mineral concentrate, we can help the specialists by giving them early data to take corrective actions. Subsequently, they will actually want to make restorative moves ahead of time (diminish pollution, in the event that it is the situation) and furthermore help the climate (lessening the measure of metal that goes to tailings as you decrease silica in the metal concentrate). 
Data: The variable “% Silica Concentrate” will be the predicted variable in our model. Created a model that will allow us to determine which flow, feed and floatation column are necessary for determining the Silica concentrate and conduct an evaluation of our predictive performance. Obtained the dataset “Mining.csv” from Kaggle.com. Cnsidered only 5,000 records from this dataset for simplicity and to avoid overloading the system which will also improve the processing time. 
Tasks: Data Cleaning and Exploratory Data Analysis, Data Partitioning, Linear Regression, k-nearest neighbour classification and regression, and Decision Tree.
Insights: 
1. The important drivers behind the % Silica concentrate are Amina.Flow, Ore.Pulp.pH, Ore.Pulp.Density, Floatation.Column.01. Level, %Iron.Concentrate with more than or equal to 95% confidence level. 
2. This analysis helps the floatation process engineers. With the help of these models, engineers would be able to predict the % of Silica in the end of the process. Which otherwise is done in a lab and it takes at least one hour for the process engineers to have this value. Hence, engineers could tweak the %Amina.Feed, %Silica.Feed, %Iron.Concentrate etc. based on the result of the process thereby reducing the impurities that come out of the mining process
Challenge: Using a k-NN model, I was unable to determine what variables were significant in  determining Silica concentrate. 
